GIT is basically a version control system that helps developers track changes in their code over time.
It allows multiple people to work on the same project simultaneously without overwriting each other's changes.
Git keeps a history of all changes made to the code, making it easy to revert to previous versions if needed.
Every developer has a local copy of the entire project history, which means they can work offline and sync changes later.
repo (short for repository) is a storage location where your project files and their version history are kept.
developer can roll back to previous versions of their code if they make a mistake or want to see how the code looked at an earlier point in time.

How do we use git
1. Install Git: First, you need to install Git on your computer. You can download it from the official Git website (https://git-scm.com/).
2. Set Up Git: After installation, you should configure your Git settings
    - Open your terminal or command prompt.
    - Set your username: git config --global user.name "Your Name"
    - Set your email: git config --global user.email "

Terminologies in Git
repository (repo): A storage location for your project files and their version history.That can be tracked using Git.
commit: A snapshot of your changes in the repository. Each commit has a unique ID and a message describing the changes made.
branch: A separate line of development in a repository. Branch is a parallel version of the main codebase that allows you to work on new features or fixes without affecting the main code.
merge: The process of combining changes from one branch into another. This is typically done when you want to integrate new features or fixes into the main codebase.
staging area: A temporary area where you can prepare your changes before committing them to the repository. You can add files to the staging area using the git add command.
remote: A version of your repository that is hosted on a server, allowing multiple developers to collaborate. Common remote hosting services include GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket.
clone: Creating a local copy of a remote repository on your computer. This allows you to work on the project locally.
push: Uploading your local commits to a remote repository so that others can access your changes.
pull: Fetching and merging changes from a remote repository into your local repository to keep it up to date.

Workflow of using git
decide which folder you want to track with git
initialize a git repository in that folder using the command git init
move current changes to the staging area using git add <file-name> or git add . to add all files
commit the changes in the staging area to the repository using git commit -m "your commit message

new changes(edited, added, deleted)to a repo
move to staging area using git add <file-name> or git add .
commit the changes using git commit -m "your commit message"


GITHUB is a server where you can save your files online using git.
You must create an account on GitHub to use it.



Making a copy on github
first you confirm no new changes is available on remote repo by using git pull
connect your online repo with local repo using git remote add origin <repo-url>